---
layout: default    
title: Blockchain Basics
nav_order: 1
parent: Blockchain
permalink: /blockchain/blockchain-basics
has_toc: true
---

## Blockchain Basics 
{: .no_toc } 

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
- TOC
{:toc}
</details>

## Hash

* [Blockchain 101](https://andersbrownworth.com/blockchain/hash){:target="_blank"}
* **Hash:**, a unique fixed length string, meant to identify a piece of data.  
  ```
  SHA256
  Keccak256
  ```
* **Signing transaction**, [Explorer Public & Private key](https://andersbrownworth.com/blockchain/public-private-keys/keys){:target="_blank"}
* Private key >>> public key >>> address. The final wallet address hex came from private key to public key. 

## Gas intro 

* [Watch gas explanation on Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WvHgb9HQzac&list=PLVP9aGDn-X0RaFosTIMTZss0dYNeXkrA3&index=7){:target="_blank"}
* [EIP1559](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559){:target="_blank"}
* [EIP1559 explained on Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MGemhK9t44Q){:target="_blank"}
* [Gwei converter](https://eth-converter.com/){:target="_blank"}

* **Gas**: A unit of computational measurement. The more complex your transaction is the more gas you pay. Gas is paid towards miners and validators.  

* `Gas Limit & Usage by txn: 60,000 | 21,000 (35%)`, you see this line in etherscan.io, meant this transaction had used 21,000 (Wei) gas. This is standard gas price for sending a ETH from account to account. It would cost more if doing other things like minting NFT, depositing to DiFi contract.  
* **Transaction fee** = Usage by txn 21,000 x Gas price (Gas price would be the cost for a Transaction at the time, it fluctuates depends on how busy the network is).
* Burnt (Gwei) = Base Gwei * Usage by Txn (21,000 Wei). Burnt fee is entirely burnt, it doesn't go anywhere. In long term, the network will contains less and less ETH. 
* Minor's fee = Transaction fee - Brunt fee 

### Difference between Gas and Transaction fee 

**Gas Fee** is a measure of computational work for transactions and smart contracts, while the **Transaction Fee** is the total cost incurred for the transaction to be included in a block. Both are critical for the functioning of blockchain networks like Ethereum, serving as a mechanism to allocate network resources and compensate miners.

## Consensus 

* Consensus is how Blockchain decide what the state of the chain is. 
* PoW & PoS are sybil resistance mechanism

* Proof of Work >> miner  
  * Miners are paid by Block Reward and Transaction Fee
  * ETH 1.0 and BTC are Proof of Work 
  
* Proof of Stake >> validator 
  * ETH 2.0 will be Proof of Stake, shard Blockchain 

## Blockchain attacks 

* Sybil attack 
* 51% attack 

## Layers - for scalability 

Sharding and Rollups are scalability solutions 

* **Shard** - sharding represents one approach to solving the "scalability trilemma," aiming to achieve scalability and speed without compromising on security and decentralization.
* **Layer 1** - base layer blockchain implementation (like: Bitcoin, Ethereum, Avalanche)
* **Layer 2** - any application built on top of a layer 2 (like Arbitrum, Optimism). ARB & OPT also known as Rollups. Rollups drives security on the base layer, side chain like Algorand drives security from their own protocol.