---
layout: default    
title: SendCrypto Project
nav_order: 3
parent: Blockchain
permalink: /blockchain/sendcrypto-project
has_toc: true
---

## SendCrypto Project
{: .no_toc } 

<details open markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
- TOC
{:toc}
</details>

### Project summary  
It’s crazy... to see you can send and receive transaction to and from anywhere in the world, no central banks, no middle man.  

This web3.0 project was super exciting.  It was amazing to follow a Youtube tutorial and learnt the fundamentals of a React application that interacts with Blockchain.   

In my previous job, we talked a lot about Decentralised Finance on Blockchain and my understanding at the time was a very high level of overview.  

After completing this project, I gained a good amount of technical knowledge in Blockchain.   

To view the application here: https://sendcrypto.geekyflare.com  

**This project is built with:**  
* **Vite** – react application  
* **TailwindCSS** – CSS style without need to write a line of css
* **Hardhat** – smart contract
* **Giphy** – a bit of fun for the page  
* **Alchemy** – RPC link  
* **Networks** – Goerli 

### Keywords Definition - TLDR  

I came across so many new words throughout my learning, here is a list of most used keywords I’ve seen multiple times.  

* **Web3.0:** the next generation of web application that allows you to Read, Write and Own, interactive decentralised system  
* **Blockchain:** Secure, Immutable, Transparent network 
* **DeFi:** Decentralised Finance 
* **dAPP:** Decentralised Application 
* **NFT:** Non Fungible Token 
* **JSON-RPC:** is a remote procedure call protocol encoded in JSON and uses HTTP requests, forming a bridge between the web programming languages and the Ethereum blockchain 
* **ABI:** is Application Binary Interface 
* **Testnet:** staging environment, popular networks: Kovan, Goerli, Sepolia, Rinkeby (deprecated), Ropsten (deprecated) 
* **Mainnet:** the production environment 
* **Faucet:** free crypto for testing 
* **Wallets:** Hosted, Self-custody, Hardware, MetaMask is self-custody wallet, CoinBase is hosted wallet 
* **Gas fee:** is like transaction fee that goes towards miners
* **Solidity:** (file extension: .sol) - a programming language for Ethereum platform influenced by C++, Javascript, Python etc
* **Hardhat vs Truffle,** smart contract development frameworks for Ethereum. Hardhat is easy for debug, Truffle has a nice Ganache GUI for account balance 
* **IPFS**: The InterPlanetary File System is a protocol, hypermedia and file sharing peer-to-peer network for storing and sharing data in a distributed file system. IPFS uses content-addressing to uniquely identify each file in a global namespace connecting IPFS hosts. 
* Create smart contract with [REMIX](https://Remix.ethereum.org){:target="_blank"} online, NodeJS/NPM, Docker or Binary package 
* **Transactions viewer:** etherscan.io